Questions:
1. You have a file with permissions -rw-r--r--, and you run chmod +x file.sh. What happens?
The executable permission will be given to all users for the file.sh. The new permissions will be -rwxr-xr-x

2. What is the difference between chmod 744 file.txt and chmod u=rwx,go=r file.txt?
Both commands gives the same permissions but in different notations - octal notation and symbolic notation. They both give the owner all permissions and read-only permission to the group and others.

3. What is the sticky bit, and when should you use it?
Special permission to prevent users from deleting or renameing files in a directory, Only owner or root user can delete/rename the files.
Command - chmod +t directory (or) chmod 1744 directory

4. You are told to give the owner full access, group only execute, and others no permissions. What symbolic command achieves this?
chmod u=rwx,g=x file.txt

5. What is umask, and why is it important?
Remove permissions by specifying the mask to the default file permission. The mask value is subtracted from the default permission. Permissions can only be subtracted and not added

6. If the umask is 022, what are the default permissions for a new file and a new directory?
FIle = default permission 666 = masked 644
Directory = default permission 777 = masked 755

7. Why is umask often set to 002 in development environments but 027 or 077 in production?
Umask 002 = remove write permission for others. Only owner and group members can write to source code, enabling collaboration
Umask 027 = remove write permission to group and all permission for others. Protect production from other users, prevent users in group from modifying the data in production
Umask 077 = remove all permissions from group and others. Only owner or root user can read, write and execute

8. useradd vs adduser
Useradd - minimal configuration command to create a new user. Options have to specified by flags.
Adducer - Script to create a new user that uses useradd command under hood. More interactive way to create a new user.
